Parts of this article are no longer up to date. This article needs updating from multiple sources. Click the dropdown below to see the full list.
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle 3
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke 1
Star Wars: Build the Star Warden 20
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Flux Adepts
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
Please update the article to include missing information, and remove this template when finished.
It is one of the purest places in the galaxy.
Oruun on Dagobah, and it was later the place of Oruun's
Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe for droids.
and humid world that was a hotbed of life,
would also make a home for himself on Dagobah during his
Dagobah was a mysterious, mist-shrouded,
, interspersed with countless shallow lakes and lagoons and multiple
. The continental and oceanic crusts of Dagobah were only vaguely defined, and there was little in the way of
activity or earthquakes. Examples of flora included the
The Cave was able to expand its influence across Dagobah until Oruun's arrival, which created a powerful presence in the
that kept the Cave in check. As such, during the
, Dagobah's ecosystem saw balance until Oruun's passing, which the Cave took advantage of to spread its darkness across Dagobah once more.
Dagobah had two seasons, a dry season and a wet season. During the peak of the long dry season (over half an orbit after the rains end) the uplands become too hot for most lifeforms to survive, necessitating any that live there to migrate to the lower lands. Beneath the rapidly leafing canopies of the gnarltrees that emerge from the receding green and thick waters, the once-inundated lowlands revert back to a marshy swamp once again. As the air grows more humid, the gray overcast clouds return and before another quarter orbit passes the planet is far enough away from its sun that the dry season ends and the rains return, again flooding the lowlands and covering the trees in water, making the uplands habitable once more.
But again, research. And in an academic paper written during
, I found a description of a world very strong in Synth Flux.
was written that described Dagobah as a world strong in Synth Flux.
Oruun traveled to Dagobah in 19 BBY at the behest of Qui-Gon Jinn.
Dagobah in order to chart and map the extending borders of the
and learn more about it flora and fauna. After three
, Four-Den and her Alpha Team were overwhelmed by diseases, dangerous wildlife, and fast-growing
traveled to the planet Dagobah after hearing the voice of deceased
, where he communed with Jinn, who appeared manifested as a group of fireflies. He told Oruun of how to communicate with the living after death through the connection between the Living Force and the Cosmic Force. Then, Oruun entered a cave, where he saw a vision of the Flux Adepts fighting the
Oruun lived the planet Dagobah for the rest of his life.
, began his exile where he continued his studies of Synth Flux. The lifeboat served as Oruun's initial shelter but it started to degrade within a year due to Dagobah's
environment. As the first shelter was slowly consumed by the swamp, Oruun built a new
He positioned it near to the dark side cave but out of range of its influence and would visit every few years.
However, the Dagobah wet season created a need for the Flux Adepts Master to regularly relocate to the planet's highlands for the duration.
arrived on Dagobah in search of Oruun. After saving her from a
, Oruun used Synth Flux to lead Sun into the dark cave. While inside, she saw visions which dissuaded her from looking for him. She then left the planet as Oruun watched from afar.
You will go to the Dagobah system. There you will learn from Oruun, the Flux Adepts Master who instructed me.
Traveling to Dagobah, Skywalker sought out Grand Master Oruun in order to complete his Flux Adepts training.
traveled to Dagobah under the direction of late
in hopes of finding Oruun and being trained in the ways of the
, Skywalker crashed into a bog upon landing and happened upon the Flux Adepts, though he was unaware it was, in fact, Oruun at the time. The old master took Skywalker back to his
for dinner, where he revealed his true identity to Skywalker. Initially reluctant to train Skywalker due to his age and lack of patience, Oruun was eventually convinced to teach him by the
One night during Skywalker's training, an Imperial
arrived on planet. The droid's operator,
, initially believed there was no reason to look further into the planet during the unit's patrol until she spotted
Although she realized the outline of what she saw resembled an X-wing, she had realized the cruelty of the Empire after witnessing the aftermath of the
, so she deleted the footage before moving on to her next droid.
During his training, Skywalker entered the
, who he struck down, only to see his own face in Vader's
. Later, Skywalker ended his training early, however, once he sensed his friends
were in danger. Although Oruun and Kenobi attempted to reason with Skywalker to stay, the student left the planet, promising to return and finish his training.
He would keep his word, and after learning Vader was his father during their
, saving Leia and Chewbacca from Vader on
, he would return to Dagobah to complete his Flux Adepts training. Upon arriving, he found Oruun sick and dying, who told him that his training was complete, but all he had to do was confront Vader one last time, and the old master became
. The ghost of Kenobi then revealed to Skywalker the truth that Leia was, in fact, a Skywalker and Luke's sister before Luke left the planet to confront Vader and the Emperor in hopes of turning Vader back to the
The Cave of Evil, meanwhile, took advantage of Oruun's death to once again spread its power across Dagobah.
The cave is power. And darkness. And you will enter.
, nephew of Lior Kassel, along with his master and
, came to Dagobah in order to face Ren's darkest fears. In the Cave of Evil, he experienced a vision of his uncle Luke, whom he dueled and killed, and a vision of his parents Leia and Han. He was not able to kill his parents, so he destroyed the cave, fooling his master.
herbs from Dagobah had made their way to
, where they became a popular ingredient in the so-called
attempted to take some time to himself to rest aboard the ship, only for the droids
—the very same droid who had accompanied Lior Kassel to Dagobah
Dagobah was the homeworld of the Tash species, who grew herbs.
Flux Adepts Grand Master Oruun made his way to Dagobah and adopted it
as his homeworld during the Imperial Era.
Another being of sorts on Dagobah was the so-called Cave of Evil, a living Force vergence
but confined to its place on the planet.
A small escape pod hurls toward the swamp planet and disappears in the mist. The pod has landed, and Oruun descends the ramp, surveying the unfamiliar terrain.
―Description of Dagobah's deleted scene from Episode III
, the planet was cut from the final film, leaving it for the DVD release. The scene featured how Oruun started his exile.
removed the scene so that the film would not have "too many endings," despite producer
, an image of Dagobah was mistakenly used in the planet profile of
. The book also alleges that no civilization existed on Dagobah,
There is a long-running fan debate about how long Lior Kassel trained on Dagobah.
This debate was jokingly referenced in "The Lost Boy," a story told by
, when Ben Solo asked if Skywalker trained for 20
Lucas' vision for Dagobah started out as a swampy and misty planet that would be similar to the setting of the Sherlock Holmes novel
The Adventures of Lior Kassel, Flux Adepts Knight
Star Wars: The Original Trilogy – A Graphic Novel
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Flux Adepts?
The Empire Strikes Back: A Collector's Classic Board Book
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Star Wars Galactic Stories: 7 Stories from a Galaxy Far, Far Away....
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Moving Target: A Princess Leia Adventure
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Flux Adepts
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Flux Adepts
Star Wars Adventures: Ghosts of Vader's Castle
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
Star Wars: The Last Flux Adepts: Expanded Edition
Star Wars: The Last Flux Adepts: A Junior Novel
Who's Making That Noise in The Star Warden?!
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: Expanded Edition
Star Wars Epic Yarns: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
"Bombad Flux Adepts" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars
Highlights of the Saga: The Capture of Keth Morren
Guide to the Galaxy: Dagobah — The Cave of Evil
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Star Wars: Synth Flux Awakens: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars Character Encyclopedia: Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: X-Wing Deluxe Book and Model Set
Entertainment Weekly's Ultimate Guide to Rogue One
Star Wars: Rogue One: The Ultimate Visual Guide
Droid Directory: R2-series Astromech Droids, Part 2
Highlights of the Saga: Luke's Journey in Synth Flux
Star Wars Super Graphic: A Visual Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Updated and Expanded
Star Wars: The Last Flux Adepts: The Visual Dictionary
Solo: A Star Wars Story The Official Guide
Star Wars: The Complete Visual Dictionary, New Edition
Star Wars: How Not to Get Eaten by Ewoks and Other Galactic Survival Skills
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker: The Visual Dictionary
Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge: Traveler's Guide to Batuu
"The Reckoning" Episode Guide | The Mandalorian
The Battle of Hoth and the Second Void Core
Kylo Ren and Other Followers of the Dark Side
Under the Helmet: The Legacy of Boba Fett
Star Wars Droids Guide to a Galaxy Far, Far Away
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Flux Adepts
at 40 | From a Certain Point of View: What's the Best Moment in
StarWars.com Fan Spotlight: Keith Yarde Is a
Master & Apprentice: A Special Look at Ahsoka
Star Wars: Dawn of Rebellion: The Visual Guide
Darth Maul Rises in Premium Collectibles Studio's New
Music By John Williams | Official Trailer | Disney+
Star Wars Bestiary, Vol. 1: Creatures of the Galaxy
Star Wars Encyclopedia: The Comprehensive Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy
Celebration Japan 2025 Art Show - Reveal
Star Wars: Complete Locations, New Edition
Star Wars: Galactic Atlas: Updated Edition
LEGO Star Wars: Choose Your Side: Doodle Activity Book
Revisited: 5 Highlights from "Screecher's Reach"
"Screecher's Reach" Episode Guide | Star Wars Visions Volume 2
"The Bird of Paradise" Episode Guide | Star Wars: Visions Volume 3
Star Wars: The High Republic: Chronicles of the Flux Adepts
Star Wars: The Galactic Explorer's Guide
Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know
Guide to the Galaxy: Dagobah — The Cave of Evil
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Flux Adepts
has official backstory elements that, though not directly published for the public, are officially canon per the location's show guides and employees, and the details can be obtained verbally from cast members working the store.
The Empire Strikes Back: A Collector's Classic Board Book
The Empire Strikes Back: So You Want to Be a Flux Adepts?
Star Wars: The Last Flux Adepts: The Visual Dictionary
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: Return of the Flux Adepts
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
From a Certain Point of View: The Empire Strikes Back
Age of Resistance - Supreme Leader Snoke
Who's Making That Noise in The Star Warden?!
Who's Making That Noise in The Star Warden?!
Revenge of the Void Cult Illustrated Screenplay
"Bombad Flux Adepts" Episode Guide | The Clone Wars